Add `The State of Ranked: Results` news post (#13712)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2025/2025-09-12-the-state-of-ranked-results.md

---
layout: post

> title: "The State of Ranked: Results"

Reviewer: to make it clear that this is not a tournament or event or smth
with some some people thinking that cta was a regular tournament, i'd expect that some people have forgotten about (or never heard about) this "state of ranked" think altogether

```suggestion
title: "The State of Ranked: Survey Results"
```

Author: Eh, will apply just in case, but the banner should be a dead giveaway. Plus people would quickly realize this is anything but an event on a quick first look.

date: 2025-09-12 12:00:00 +0000
---

Vox populi, vox Dei.

![](/wiki/shared/news/banners/beatmap-management-v2.jpg)

> First things first, we want to thank everyone who took the time to participate in the survey. The gathered data has proven to be invaluable — not just to the Nomination Assessment Team, but the osu! team at large!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First things first, we want to thank everyone who took the time to participate in the [survey back in June](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2025-06-25-survey-the-state-of-ranked). The gathered data has proven to be invaluable — not just to the Nomination Assessment Team, but the osu! team at large!
```

But first, let's put engagement into numbers. Here's a list with all (verified) participants per mode:

- **osu!:** 7,394
- **osu!taiko:** 623
- **osu!catch:** 437
- **osu!mania:** 1,972

## Results

The following graphs were made using the raw data obtained from the form responses. While we tried highlighting the most interesting trends throughout each question's answers, it is virtually impossible to cram all numbers into a single news post. Therefore, if anyone is curious enough and wants to dive deeper into the data, you can find the raw results in the following [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1IXMc1dAPGXwtKJ__iInjy1dg6cW0nq243AojDmIIeUM).

> ***Disclaimer:** For the purposes of this post, when making reference to a percentage, it is making explicit reference to osu!'s results. Therefore, any comparisons made between the other modes will be relative, whereas osu!'s data will be absolute.*

Author: Edited so it explicitly mentions which percentages are for osu! only.

### The quality of the section

![](/wiki/shared/news/2025-09-12-the-state-of-ranked-results/pie-quality.png)

Quality has always been a point of contention between users in the community. The fact that people interpret quality in different ways does not help, although that was to be expected of course. In the same way people find fun in different ways, so will their tastes differ!

With that said, we noticed there was quite the split in opinions between osu! and the rest of modes when asking such a question. While responses between osu!taiko, osu!catch, and osu!mania remained more or less balanced, osu! was the only mode with a disproportionate amount of players claiming that the section's quality has decreased over the past few years. Moreover, game modes other than osu! seemed to boast of a newer player base as many users claimed not to be keeping up with beatmaps from previous years.

> Respondents active in osu!, however, seem to be more pessimistic with an almost even split between those who believe the section's quality hasn't changed (**31%**), and those who think it has declined (**28%**). osu!mania players remain the most optimistic, being the group with the highest percentage of people who think the Ranked section has improved, even if just a bit!

Author: https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/13712/files#r2376670749

However, the remaining 75% of players either believe that the current amount of maps is of their liking (**26%**), or remain neutral to the amount of maps being ranked altogether (**49%**).

What caught our attention the most out of these numbers (particularly in osu!) was the difference in written opinions across different forum posts, comments, and discussions, and the poll's results. While there was a very vocal group of people who claimed that the high amount of maps being ranked was harming the section, some respondents felt like this was not an issue whatsoever.

## Glossing over the comments

<style>
    .news-chat-quote__mode-icon {
        float: left;
        width: 35px;
        height: 35px;
        border-radius: 50%;
        margin-left: -50px;
        font-size: 35px;
    }

    .news-chat-quote__text-container {
        margin-left: 50px;
    }

    .news-chat-quote__mode-name {
        font-weight: 600;
        margin-bottom: 2px;
    }

    .news-chat-quote__colour-no-group {
        color: #FFFFFF;
    }
</style>

> Beyond the numerical results we've been able to extract from the survey, there have been a myriad of comments and opinions thrown around that we believe are worth looking into. While the team will take a deeper look into these as we discuss future changes, we wanted to highlight a handful of comments coming from different groups of interest!

Reviewer: are these all from the survey? could make that a little more clear if so

```suggestion
Beyond the numerical results we've been able to extract from the survey, there have been a myriad of comments and opinions in the free-form questions of the survey that we believe are worth looking into. While the team will take a deeper look into these as we discuss future changes, we wanted to highlight a handful of comments coming from different groups of interest!
```

*Current Ranked system has most maps feeling the same. A lot of the same patterns/gimmicks over and over and the quality within the maps itself is only falling. Lately there is also a loss in creativity as sounds are emphasized the same way across many maps, i.e hyperchains and 1/8s are used almost always in every deluge+ difficulty without fail within this last year.*

<i class="fal fa-extra-mode-mania news-chat-quote__mode-icon"></i>

<p class="news-chat-quote__mode-name news-chat-quote__colour-no-group">osu!mania</p>

*I think there used to be too many restrictions in what is rankable or not in the past but at the moment the ranked status allows everything that should be allowed. Although I think that there are some instances of "quality control" that shouldn't get the chart disallowed from ranked (a great example is monheim's joker chart).*

</div>

## Conclusion

To say that this data is valuable to us would be an understatement. Being able to put the community's opinion into numbers, and being able to compare and contrast these results with more empirical data and observations throughout several community discussions is of great help.

> For one, it lets us know what the community is most interested in, and between those groups who are usually the most vocal towards certain changes. Most importantly, it unfortunately also means that satisfying everyone's needs is out of the question. As such, we need to act with the utmost care and consideration when pushing new ideas forward.

Reviewer: the first sentence doesn't compute. is this what you mean?

```suggestion
For one, it lets us know what the community is most interested in, beyond the direct feedback we get from the vocal few. Most importantly, it unfortunately also means that satisfying everyone's needs is out of the question. As such, we need to act with the utmost care and consideration when pushing new ideas forward.
```

> We do hope that with these results being public, users get to understand the vast amount of different — and sometimes equal in weight — opinions this game has to offer. We also want to encourage users to draw their own conclusions from the [results](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ImI8ErcmQLWFN2RcDRSZOcIIu4s696bJMX5LD2kh9wY/view?rm=minimal)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do hope that with these results being public, people get to understand the vast amount of different opinions this game has to offer. We also want to encourage users to draw their own conclusions from the [full (anonymised) results data](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ImI8ErcmQLWFN2RcDRSZOcIIu4s696bJMX5LD2kh9wY/view?rm=minimal)!
```
